doc multi-tenancy (#122)
ConsenSys/doc.tessera: docs/Concepts/Multitenancy.md

---
description: Tessera and GoQuorum multi-tenancy
---

# Multi-tenancy via multiple private states

> In a typical [GoQuorum](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/) network, each participant (tenant) uses its own

Reviewer: their own

GoQuorum and Tessera node.
Tessera can be configured to manage multiple key pairs owned by one tenant.
This model is costly to run and scale as more tenants join the network.

Multi-tenancy via multiple private states (MPS) allows multiple tenants to use the same GoQuorum node, with each
tenant having its own private state(s).
Each tenant can perform all operations (create, read, and write) on any contract in its private state, and a single
tenant can have access to multiple private states.
Multi-tenancy provides a user experience similar to a user running their own managed node.

The public state remains publicly available to all tenants, and private states are logically separated.

> For more information about multi-tenancy and MPS, see the [GoQuorum documentation](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/latest/concepts/multi-tenancy/).

Reviewer: would be better to link to stable not latest

## Using multi-tenancy via multiple private states

To use multi-tenancy via multiple private states, you must have:

- Tessera version `21.4.0` or later installed.

> - GoQuorum version `21.4.2` or later installed.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to mention Besu as an alternative to GoQuorum here?

!!! important

    If running an earlier GoQuorum or Tessera version, upgrade your existing nodes to enable MPS and multi-tenancy using
    the [GoQuorum MPS migration guide](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/migration/).
    As described in the migration guide, you must run the [Tessera multi-tenancy migration tool](../HowTo/Migrate/Migration-Multitenancy.md)
    to upgrade Tessera to support multi-tenancy.

Configure multi-tenancy via multiple private states according to the [GoQuorum multi-tenancy guide](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy/).

!!! note

    As described in the multi-tenancy guide, you must [configure MPS in Tessera](../HowTo/Configure/Multiple-private-state.md)
    to use multi-tenancy.

> 

Reviewer: ^ the above "important" and "note" are a bit confusing. Does it boil down to 2 things - firstly, if you're running earlier version/s, you need to upgrade. And secondly, you need to do config in _both_ Tessera and GoQuorum to make it work?

multiple private states.

The public state remains publicly available to all tenants, and private states are logically separated.

For more information about GoQuorum multi-tenancy via MPS, see the [GoQuorum multi-tenancy documentation](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/concepts/multi-tenancy/).
For more information about Besu multi-tenancy, see the [Besu multi-tenancy documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Concepts/Privacy/Multi-Tenancy/).

## Using GoQuorum multi-tenancy

To use GoQuorum multi-tenancy via MPS:

1. You must have:

    - Tessera version `21.4.0` or later installed.
    - GoQuorum version `21.4.2` or later installed.

    If running an earlier GoQuorum or Tessera version, upgrade your existing nodes to enable MPS and multi-tenancy using
    the [GoQuorum MPS migration guide](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/migration/).
    As described in the guide, this includes running the [Tessera multi-tenancy migration tool](../HowTo/Migrate/Migration-Multitenancy.md)
    to upgrade Tessera to support multi-tenancy.

> 2. Configure multi-tenancy via MPS according to the [GoQuorum multi-tenancy guide](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy/).

Reviewer 3: Normally we can omit "en/stable" from the urls, but now it seems to 404. @NicolasMassart, do you have any idea why?

> 2. Configure multi-tenancy via MPS according to the [GoQuorum multi-tenancy guide](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy/).
>    As described in the guide, this includes [configuring MPS in Tessera](../HowTo/Configure/Multiple-private-state.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. [Configure multi-tenancy via MPS](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy/), this includes [configuring MPS in Tessera](../HowTo/Configure/Multiple-private-state.md).
```

> 3. You can also follow the multi-tenancy guide to add a new tenant to a multi-tenant node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. You can also [add a new tenant to a multi-tenant node](https://consensys.net/docs/goquorum/en/stable/configure-and-manage/manage/multi-tenancy/multi-tenancy/#add-a-new-tenant-to-multi-tenant-node).
```
